, mm onom 219 ,

collocation and position, ane aecondary in comparison with
the former.
Let the required nature then be the expansion or cehe·

‚ rence of matter in different bodies, or the quantity oi matter

relative to the dimensione oi each. For there ia nothing in
nature more true than the twofold proposition—that nothing
proceeds from nothing and that nothing ia reduced to noth·
ing, but that the quantum, or sum total oi matter, ia con·
stant, and ia neither increaeed nor diminished. Nor ia it
less true, that out of this given quantity of matter, there
is a greater or less quantity, contained within the same
space or dimensione according to the difference of bodiee3
as, for instance, water contains more than air. So that if-
any one were to essert that a given content oi water can
be changed into an equal content oi air, it is the same ae
ii he were to aaeert that something can be reduced into

⁸ nothing. On the contrary, if any one were to asaert that

a given content oi air can be changed into an equal content ,
oi water, it is the same as is he were to aaaert that some·
thing can proceed from nothing. From this abundance 'or
acal-city of matter are properly derived the notione of
density and rarity, which are taken in various and pro·
miscuous sensea. '

'I'his third assertion may be considered aa being also
sufficiently certain; namely‚ that the greater or lesa quan·
tity of matter in this or that body, may, by compa-ison, be
reduced to calculation‚ and exact, or nearly exact, propor-
t‘ion. Thus, if one should say that there is such an accumu-
lation of matter in a given quanity of gold, that it would
require twenty-one times the quantity in dimension of spir·
its of wine, to make up the same quantity of matter, it

would not be iar from the truth.
*Souis-ca·— Vcn. 22 -10

