A

198 Novma ORGANUM

placed in the “ench or cavity of the sen, cannot be raised
at once, because there would not be enough to cover the
bottom, so that if there be any tendency of this kind in the
water to raise itself, yet it would be inter-rupted and checked
by the cohesion of things, or (ns the 'common expression is)
that there may be no vacnum. The water, therefore, must
rise on one side, and ior that reason be diminished and ebb
on another. —But it will again necessarily follow that the
magnetic power not being able to operate on the whole,
operate· most intensely- on the centre, so as to raise the
waters there, which, when thus raised successively, desert
and abandon the sides.·⁰

We at length arrive, then, at an instance of the crosa,

which is this: if it be found that during the ebb the suriaco - ι

oi the waters at sea is more curved and round, from the
waters rising in the middle, and sinking at the sides or
coast, and if, during a flood, it be more even and level,
from the waters returning to their tormer position, then
assuredly, by this decisive instance, the raising oi them by
a magnetic force can be admitted3 if otherwise, it must be
entirely rejected. It is not difficult to make the experi-
ment (by sounding in straits), whether the sea be deeper
toward the middle in ebbs, than in floods. But it must be
observed, if this be the case, that (contrary to common
opinion) the waters rise in ebbs, and only return to their
former position in floods, so asto bathe and inundate the
coast.

Again, let the required nature be the spontaneous motion
of revolution, and particularly, whether the diurna] motion,
by which the sun and stars appear to us to rise and set, be

⁸⁸ Bacon’e ..κιαι-,γ here toreshadows Newton’s theory ct the tides.

