1'0 pannon

·· and specious opinions, but to know to a certainty and dem·

onstration, let him, as a true son of science (it such be his
vich), join with us3 that when he has left the entechambers
of nature trodden by the multitude, an entrance may at last
be discovered to her inner apartments. And in order to be
better understood, and to render our meaning more familiar
by assiguing determinate names, γε have accustomed our·
solves to call the one method the anticipation os the mind,
and the other the interpretation ot* nature}

We have still one request left. We have at least re·
flecoed and taken paine in order to render our propositione
not only true, but· of easy and familiar access to men’s·
minds, however wonderfully prepossessed and limiwd.
Yet it is but just that we should obtain this favor from
mankind (especially in so great a restoration of learning
and the sciences), that whosoever may be desirous of form·
ing any determination upon an opinion of this our work
either from his own perceptione, or the· crowd of authori·
ties, or the forms of demonstratione, he will not expect to
be able to do so in a cursory manner, and while attending
to other matters3 but in order to have a thorough knowledge
of the subject, will himself by degrees attempt the course
which we describe and maintain3 will be aecustomed to the
subtilty of things which is manifested by experien003 and
will correct the depraved and deeply rooted habits of his
mind by a seasonable, and, as it were, just hesitation:
and then, finally (if he will), use his judgment when he„
has begun to ·be master of himself.

 

