ἱ.-

228 auom onom „

the mixture oi fleme and· air in spirituous substances, not
bearing mixture very well b y simple collision, while they .
appear, however, to be well mixed in the· spirite oi plante

. and animale.

Again, if the inquiry do not relate to perfect mixtur-es of
spirite, but merely to their composition, es whether they ι

, easily incorporate with each other, or there be rather (as an

, example) certain winde and exhalatione, or other spiritual
bodies, which do not mix with common air, but only adhere
to aud float in it in globules and drops, and are rather
broken and pounded by the air, than received into, eud
incorporated with it3 this cannot be perceived in common
air, and other aeriiorm substances, on account of the rarity
of the bodies, but an image, as it were, of this process may
be conceived in- such liquide as quicksilver, oil, water, end

, even air, when broken and dissipated it ascende in small

portione through water, and also in the thicker kinds of
smok03 lastly, in dust, raised and remaining in the air, in
all of which there is no incorporation: and the above repre·
sentation in this respectis not a bad one, if· it be first dili·
gently investigated, whether there can be euch a difference
of nature between spirituous substances‚ as between liquide,
’ for then these images might conveniently be substituted by
,analogyn

And although we have observed oi these supplementary
instancee, that information is to be derived from them, when
appropriate instances are wanting, by way of refuge, yet we
would have it understood, that they are also of great use,
when the appropriate instances are at hand, in order to con-

’ firm the information afforded. by them3 of which we will

speak more at length, when our subject leads ue, in due
course, to the support oi induction. ’

 

