‚nom onom 26¹1

For ot the motione here laid down, some are quite in·
vincible‚ some more powerrul than others, which they oon·
‚fine‚ check, and modim others extend to a greater distance,
..others are more immediate and swiit, others strengthen,
increase, and accelerate the rest.

The motion of resistance is most adamantino and inviu-
cible. We ‘are yet in doubt whether such be the nature of

that of connection3 for we cannot with certainty determine ’

-. whether there be a vacuum, either extensive or intermixed
with matter. Of one thing, howeyer, we are satisfied, that
‚the reason assigned by Leucippus and Democritus for the

.· ..introduction of a vacuum (namely, *that the same bodies
could not otherwise comprehend, and fill greater and less ,

spaces) is false. For there is clearly a folding of matter,
by which it wraps and unwraps itself in space within cer·
tain limits, without the intervention of a vacuum. Nor is

'iere two thousand times more of vacuum in air than in
fild, as there should be on this hypothesis3 a fact demon·
strated by the very powerful energies οἱ fluida (which would
“otherwise .float like fine dust in vacuo), and n'iany other
*procia 'Phe other motione direct, and are directed by each ’

›ther, according to their strength, quantity, excitemeng ,

emission, or the assistance or impediments they meet with.

⁵ For instance; some armed magnete hold and support
'ron of sixty times their own weight; so far does the mo·
..ion of lesser congregation predominate over that of the
gresten but if the weight be increased, it yields. A lever
of a certain strength will raise a given weight, and so far
the motion oi liberty predominates over that of the greater
congregation, but if the weight be greater, the former
motion yields. A piece of lesther stretched to ἦ certain

point does not break, and so far the motion oi coutinuity
Somcn- Vol. 22 -- -12

