‘Nom omma · ’ 199 ’

a real motion of revolution in the heavenly bodies, or only
apparent in them, and real in the earth. There may be an
instance of the cross oi the following nature. If there be
discovered any motion in the ocean from east to west,
though very languid and weak, and if the same motion be
discovered rather more swift in th'e air (particularly within
the tropics‚ where it is more perceptible from the circlos
being greater)e lt it be discovered also in the low comem,
and be already quick and powerful in them3 if it be found
also in the planets, but so tempered and regulated as to be
slower in those nearest the earth, and quicker in those'at
the greatest distance, being quickest of all in the heavens,
then the diurnal motion should certainly be considered as
real in the heavens‚ and that of the earth must be rejected3
for it will be evident that the, motion from east to west is

part of the system · of the world and universal; since it · ’

is most rapid in the height oi the, heaven& and gradually
grows weaker, till it stops end is extinguished in rest at
the earth. . , , ἢ

Again, let the required nature be thet other motion of ,
revolution, so celebrated among astronomers, which is con-
trary to the diui-nal, hemely, from west to, east—and which
the ancient 'astronomers assign to the planete, and even to
the starry epher-e, but Copernicus ‘and his followers to the
earth also—and let it be examined whether any such motion
be found in nature, or it be rather a fiction and hypothesis
for abridging and facilitating calculation‚ and tor promoting
that fine notion of effecting the heavenly motione by perfect
circles3 for there is nothing which proves suche motion in
heavenly objecta to be true and real, either in a planet’s not
returning. in its diurnal motion to the same point of the
starry sphere, or in· the pole of the zodiac being different

