'140 ⁸ nom onem

also, that the quartem of the heavens produce a greater heat
(though not perceptibly), in proportion as they are adorned
with s greater number of stars, particularly those oi the
first magnitude.

19. On the whole, the heet of the heavenly bodies is
angmented ιιι three ways. 1. 'Phe approach to the perpen-
dicular3 2. Proximity or their perigee; 8. 'Phe conjunction
01: union of stars.

20. 'Phere is a very considerable difference between the
degree of heat in animale, and even in the rays oi the heav-
enly bodies (ss they reach us), and the heat oi the most gen·
tle flame, and even of all ignited substances, nay, liquids,
or the sir itseli when unusually heated by fire. For the
flame of spirit of wine, though diffused and uncollected, is
yet able to set straw, linen‚ or paper' on fire, which animal
hest, or that of the sun, wil-l never accomplish without a
buming-glass.

21. 'I'here are, however, many degrees of strength and
weakness in fleme and ignited bodies: but no diligent in·
quiry has been made in this respect, and we must, therefore,
pass it hastily over. of all flames, that of spirits oi wine
appears to be “ the most gentle, except perhaps the ignis
fatuus, or the. flashes from the perspiration of animale.
After this we should be inclined to place the flame oi light-
and porous vegetables, such as straw‚ reeds, aud dried

leaves3 from which the flame oi hair or feathers differs but ·

little. Then, perhaps, comes the flame of wood, particu-
larly‚that which contains but little rosin or pitch; that of
small wood, however (such as is usually tied up in fagots)‚
is milder than that of the trunks or roots estrees. 'I'his can.
be easily tried in iron furnaces, where a fire of fagots or
branchos oi trees is of little service. Next follows the fiame

 

